README.md, before:

# Passport-Powell
Portfolio 1 Assessment


Travel community site for meeting fellow travelers. Site is targeted mostly towards travelers coming into the UK while still being open to residents.

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/Amiresponsive_old.jpg)

## User Stories

- Main page
As a visiting user, I would like to see what the Website is about.

- Sign up Page
As a visiting user , I would like to signup for the newsletter.

- Weekly Schedule PAge
As a visiting user , I would like to view the weekly schedule for meet ups. 

- Past events gallery page
As a visiting user , I would like to view the past event gallery. 

## Features

### Navigation Bar
- On all pages and functional, Removing the need for users to click/press back button.

- NAv menu links to 
    - Home 
    
    ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/home.jpg)
    - Past Events Gallery 
    
    ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/gallery.jpg) 
    - Weekly Schedule 
    
    ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/Schedule.jpg)
    - Sign up 
    
    ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/sign-up.jpg)
- Hovering over icons for text explanation of what it does if needed.

### Footer
- This Section has link to social media opening in different tabs.
- Users can follow and subscribe to social networks.
![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/footer.jpg)

## Main Page

### Landing Section
- Circle container has a picture of a travel experience and is eye catching.

### Why Join us Section
- This section tells the user the benefits with the goal of encouraging them to join.


## Gallery page
- Masonary Gallery shows past events to intice users to join.

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/gallery-amiresponsive.jpg)


## Weekly Schedule Page
- This page shows users when events are happening, where and also what time.
- This page will be updated as events change.

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/Schedule-amiresponsive.jpg)

## Sign up Page
- Allows users to join to a newsletters
- Nesletters gives information about events in and around Birmingham.
- Users can choose to only receive email about weekly schedules, events around birmingham or both.
- Form requires Name and Email adress.

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/signup-amiresponsive.jpg)


## Future Features

- Create own meet up events
- Toggle Dark Mode


## Typography

- Font size used was Roboto-Slab
- Colors used 

## Technology

### Technologies used were as follows:

HTML5 

CSS

github

gitpod

HOVER:CSS

GOOGLE FONTS

FONT awesome

## Testing

Site tested on different browser: Microsoft Edge, Brave Browser and Chrome.
tested that all text is readable

 ### Sign up page
  - Click sign up symbol on nav with the expected result to be redirected 
  to a sign up form. Form requires First name, Last name, Email address and types of emails to be received.
  - Incorrect email address type attempted with expected result to be a pop up informing what was entered inccorectly.
  - Corrct email entered with expected result to be information accepted.

  ### Gallery page
  - Click gallery symbol with the expected result to be shown a gallery page full of images.

  ### Weekly Schedule
  - click on scehdule symbol with the expectation of being redirected to schedule page, with the content showing the weekly schedule.
  - click on location with the expectation of being redirected to google maps in a new tab.

  ### Title
  - click on the title with the expected result to be redirected to the home page.

### Screen size
- all test above reaped on sizes ranging from tablets and mobile


### CSS Validation
 - Tested using the official W3C validator
 https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fpassportpowell.github.io%2FPassport-Powell%2F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en

 ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/css-validator.jpg)


### HTML Validation
 - Tested using the official (Jigsaw) validator
 https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fpassportpowell.github.io%2FPassport-Powell%2F

 ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/html-validator.jpg)


### lighthouse validator
- Main Page

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/lighthouse-home.jpg)


- Gallery

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/lighthouse-gallery.jpg)


- Schedule

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/lighthouse-schedule.jpg)

- Sign Up Page

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/lighthouse-signup.jpg)


 ## Bugs along the way

 - 3 radio button were allowing all to be checked. Solution was they needed the same name value.
 background image on sign up page was blurry. solution was to find a higher quality image.

 - When resizing the screen to mobile the Nav menu would dissapear. Solution was the class wasn't identified correctly in @media screen

 - Sign up form just reloads page, tried to work out how to get it to open a specific page but was unsuccessful.


## Deployment

Deployment was achieved via GitHub pages using the following steps

 - In the GitHub repository go to the Settings tab,

 - using the source section drop-down menu, select the Master/ or Main Branch,

 - Once completed a link will be provided that may take a few minutes to go live,

 - live link https://passportpowell.github.io/Passport-Powell/ .

## Credits

### Images

- Image gallery sources from my own photos. 

- Circle container image sources from my own picture.
schedule page's weekly background Picture was sourced from https://www.visitbritain.com/gb/en/business/england/birmingham


### Content

- Text box width change upon clicked code was sourced from 
https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_attribute_value.asp .

- Code for Social media link was used from full stack developer course code.

- Code for hovering over Nav Menu Items sourced from https://sebhastian.com/html-hover-text/ .

- Code for HR styling (double line) sourced from https://codepen.io/zackw/pen/NqWgPq .

- Help was asked using the slack group as radios section allowed all 3 button to be active. solution was found thanks to jeffrey bull.

Commit message:

change styling for nav bar differences

README.md, after:

# Passport-Powell
Portfolio 1 Assessment


Travel community site for meeting fellow travelers. Site is targeted mostly towards travelers coming into the UK while still being open to residents.

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/Amiresponsive_old.jpg)

## User Stories

- Main page
As a visiting user: I would like to see what the Website is about.

- Sign up Page
As a visiting user: I would like to signup for the newsletter.

- Weekly Schedule Page
As a visiting use: I would like to view the weekly schedule for meet ups. 

- Past events gallery page
As a visiting user: I would like to view the past event gallery. 

## Features

### Navigation Bar
- On all pages and functional, Removing the need for users to click/press back button.

- Nav menu links to 
    - Home 
    
    ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/home.jpg)
    - Past Events Gallery 
    
    ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/gallery.jpg) 
    - Weekly Schedule 
    
    ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/Schedule.jpg)
    - Sign up 
    
    ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/sign-up.jpg)
- Hovering over icons for text explanation of what it does if needed.

### Footer
- This Section has link to social media opening in different tabs.
- Users can follow and subscribe to social networks.
![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/footer.jpg)

## Main Page

### Landing Section
- Circle container has a picture of a travel experience and is eye catching.

### Why Join us Section
- This section tells the user the benefits with the goal of encouraging them to join.


## Gallery page
- Masonary Gallery shows past events to intice users to join.

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/gallery-amiresponsive.jpg)


## Weekly Schedule Page
- This page shows users when events are happening, where and also what time.
- This page will be updated as events change.

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/Schedule-amiresponsive.jpg)

## Sign up Page
- Allows users to join to a newsletters
- Nesletters gives information about events in and around Birmingham.
- Users can choose to only receive email about weekly schedules, events around birmingham or both.
- Form requires Name and Email adress.

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/signup-amiresponsive.jpg)


## Future Features

- Create own meet up events
- Toggle Dark Mode


## Typography

- Font size used was Roboto-Slab
- Colors used 

## Technology

### Technologies used were as follows:


HTML5 - Used for creating layout.

CSS -  Used for styling HTML.

github - Used for hosting repository for easy sharing.

gitpod -  Used for writing the HTML and CSS and README.

HOVER:CSS - Used for hover styling.

GOOGLE FONTS - for use of roboto-slab

FONT awesome - used for icons

## Testing

Site tested on different browser: Microsoft Edge, Brave Browser and Chrome.
tested that all text is readable

 ### Sign up page
  - Click sign up symbol on the nav bar with the expected result to be redirected 
  to a sign up form. 
  - Click on First name box: User should notice error until field is entered correctly. Last name, Email address and types of emails to be received.
  - Click on Last name box: User should notice error until field is entered correctly.
  - Click on Email box: User should notice error until characters are entered into the field.
    - Enter invalid email address will expected result in an error.
    - Enter valid email entered with expected result to be information accepted.
  - user wil be redirected to another page.

  ### Gallery page
  - Click gallery symbol with the expected result to be shown a gallery page full of images.

  ### Weekly Schedule
  - click on scehdule symbol with the expectation of being redirected to schedule page, with the content showing the weekly schedule.
  - click on location with the expectation of being redirected to google maps in a new tab.

  ### Title
  - click on the title with the expected result to be redirected to the home page.

### Screen size
- all test above reaped on sizes ranging from tablets and mobile


### CSS Validation
 - Tested using the official W3C validator
 https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fpassportpowell.github.io%2FPassport-Powell%2F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en

 ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/css-validator.jpg)


### HTML Validation
 - Tested using the official (Jigsaw) validator
 https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fpassportpowell.github.io%2FPassport-Powell%2F

 ![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/html-validator.jpg)


### lighthouse validator
- Main Page

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/lighthouse-home.jpg)


- Gallery

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/lighthouse-gallery.jpg)


- Schedule

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/lighthouse-schedule.jpg)

- Sign Up Page

![Responsive Image](https://github.com/passportpowell/Passport-Powell/blob/main/readme-images/lighthouse-signup.jpg)


 ## Bugs along the way

 - 3 radio button were allowing all to be checked. Solution was they needed the same name value.
 background image on sign up page was blurry. solution was to find a higher quality image.

 - When resizing the screen to mobile the Nav menu would dissapear. Solution was the class wasn't identified correctly in @media screen

 - Sign up form just reloads page, tried to work out how to get it to open a specific page but was unsuccessful.


## Deployment

Deployment was achieved via GitHub and gitpod pages using the following steps

## Github
 - In the GitHub repository go to the Settings tab,

 - using the source section drop-down menu, select the Master/ or Main Branch,

 - Once completed a link will be provided that may take a few minutes to go live,

 - live link https://passportpowell.github.io/Passport-Powell/ .

## gitpod
 in the terminal type python3 -m http.server
 a pop up appears which upon clicking "open in browserW will show a new tab with the site created.

## Credits

### Images

- Image gallery sources from my own photos. 

- Circle container image sources from my own picture.
schedule page's weekly background Picture was sourced from https://www.visitbritain.com/gb/en/business/england/birmingham


### Content

- Text box width change upon clicked code was sourced from 
https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_attribute_value.asp .

- Code for Social media link was used from full stack developer course code.

- Code for hovering over Nav Menu Items sourced from https://sebhastian.com/html-hover-text/ .

- Code for HR styling (double line) sourced from https://codepen.io/zackw/pen/NqWgPq .

- Help was asked using the slack group as radios section allowed all 3 button to be active. solution was found thanks to jeffrey bull.
